Dear esteemed Dharma friends, I
would like to answer some questions and ask the Venerable Master to
teach us more and
deepen our understanding of cause and effect. Why is it necessary to
practice in a structured manner? This will give us
more resources and encourage each other to
practice the Six
Harmonies. The first issue is why it is necessary to
practice in a structured manner. We shouldn't act arbitrarily
because the Buddhist organization is a
practice group with respect for the mind
and
has a discipline and structure. For
example, in a family, discipline is
extremely important. Those who become monks or nuns must observe
250 precepts for men and 348 for women, but
beyond that, there are hundreds more things
to practice. That is, one must be
very mindful to maintain the purity of
body and mind. Do you understand, esteemed Dharma friends? It means correcting
ourselves, transforming from a
carefree being living without discipline,
order, or structure, to
a being living with dignity within
a moral foundation called virtuous practices.
Within
our morality, there is both good and
evil. So, in one...  For example, in a family, the
father is called "father," the mother is called "mother," and the child is called "child." That's called
order and discipline, isn't it,
dear fellow practitioners? For example, a husband
calls his wife "my dear," and a
wife calls her husband "brother," right? A child calls his father "Dad" and
refers to themselves as "child," and a child
calls his mother "Mom" and
refers to themselves as "child." But in a family, if the husband uses "you" and "I" when speaking to his wife, and the wife uses "you" and "I" when speaking to her husband, and the child uses "grandparents" and "I" when speaking to
their parents, which family is better? A family with good order and
discipline is better, more beautiful, and everyone enjoys a higher level of happiness. That's why the first practice of the Chrysanthemum Club, practicing the
Six Harmonies, is to follow the hierarchy, order, and discipline; one cannot act arbitrarily. That's what people call living mindfully. Living mindfully means practicing the Dharma correctly. If we don't practice correctly, we call it being absent-minded, dear fellow practitioners. Therefore, the first thing
is to cultivate our minds so that we have discipline and
order, becoming a
dignified person. That's the first step, dear fellow practitioners.  There are so
many things
we need to correct in our minds and bodies.
Later, as you, dear fellow practitioners, gradually learn the
practice of mindfulness, we will bring it up so that you can reach a higher level. We will transform in an instant, in every thought, and we will become different beings. Now, dear fellow practitioners, just diligently practice
living a disciplined life, and naturally, when you go home, you
will also become a disciplined person.
You only need to change yourself; you will be surprised by the
changes in yourself in just three to five months.
If we practice seriously,
we will naturally find ourselves
becoming dignified and disciplined people. We will abandon words that we feel are inappropriate, we will abandon behaviors that we feel are inappropriate, we will become very, very neat and tidy people, it's wonderful, dear fellow practitioners! If we want to
become a dignified person,
we must abandon gossip and
idleness. We should care about what is our own business, and what concerns
others that we
can help them with, or that they may have.  If you can help
me, then care about it. But
anything beyond my control,
I'll just become a
loudspeaker, a messy, disorganized person, so I
should abandon those
bad habits. Therefore, my mind is filled with
this. Buddhist organizations are intellectual organizations,
organizations of people who
want to change themselves, who want to
abandon their bad habits. That's what
Buddhist organizations and the Golden Chrysanthemum Club do.
All those
habits that make us
ordinary,
make us bad people, we must abandon
those habits. Dear fellow practitioners, understand this point. After
practicing Buddhism, at some point, when
I look back at my
own character, I feel respect for myself. That's what matters.
Dear fellow practitioners,
you must feel respect for
yourself, you must feel capable. As Buddhist practitioners,
we must have this
awareness. Even the Han Guan (a Buddhist meditation practice) acknowledges it, and at that
moment,
I truly admire myself. To admire
others isn't always good. I
admire myself.  My own self is what is good, dear fellow
practitioners. Serving others is just part
of the learning process. Only by
serving myself can I teach others. I
must be truly dignified; I don't
accept letting go. That's why in
Buddhism, we are strict with
ourselves and compassionate towards others. Remember,
Buddhism is a religion that is strict with itself,
meaning we must refine ourselves, be very
strict with ourselves. My mind is
extremely strict
with its own behavior,
so every day I sit and review my
actions from morning till night, examining
which actions are good and which are not, and
correcting myself. Do you
agree, dear fellow practitioners? I have
n't even finished refining myself yet; where would I find the time to
care about others? Why
criticize people for good or bad? It's a
waste of time. My mind has had that
thought since I was a child.
Therefore, from childhood to adulthood, I have never gotten involved
in gossip or slander. I absolutely never
dislike that kind of personality, I
don't listen to gossip, and I don't
talk about gossip.  Therefore,
Tâm Chiếu Hà Quán is 53 or 54
years old this year, but reflecting on my life from childhood
until now, I have never felt ashamed of
myself, never felt ashamed of getting involved in gossip or slander. I have
absolutely never been involved in such things and feel very
proud of myself. Remember, dear fellow practitioners,
people's praise isn't always genuine; only their
praise is real. Remember, people's
praise isn't necessarily
true because their perception of
you is sometimes mistaken; only their
perception of you is real. Therefore,
Tâm Chiếu Hà Quán only accepts
self-praise, not
praise from others. I only accept
praise from myself, knowing what I have overcome and what I have accomplished.
I don't need
others to praise me, do I? If I only
hope for others' praise, then
I am blind to myself. Therefore, Tâm Chiếu
Hà Quán has a habit of being
satisfied with
my own actions and behavior; only then am I content. What
others say is not what matters.  When
people praise you, ignore their praise. It's easy to get agitated,
isn't it?
Those who like external praise
are easily agitated. It's easy to
be misled, isn't it? But when
I look at myself, I
live very
calmly and maintain self-control. That's the quality
we must learn. Mindfulness and mindfulness are essential; we must correct
ourselves and remain so forever.
Mindfulness and mindfulness mean never being
swayed by criticism or
praise. Why? Because if people criticize you,
but it's not
true, then it doesn't matter. But if
they criticize you and it's true, then
you should improve yourself. And
don't take praise too seriously. Isn't that right?
Because, for
example, if someone says you're good like this, and
you like that, you'll just be
stuck in the same place. You
won't develop, so those who
develop are the ones who ignore praise.
Praise is the praiser's job,
not yours, so don't use
praise to get agitated. I do
things myself.  I believe it's right,
not because of praise that I'm being
incited by the public. Do you agree? That's
right. The mind of the Bodhisattva has had this
perspective on life since childhood; it's been like this. A
very clear perspective on life, so one isn't easily
incited. And in life, we should
also strive to be like that. Such a person is someone who lives
rationally, who knows how to be independent and strive for
success, and who has a controlled mind. I say that if you have such a mindset, you will succeed, dear fellow practitioners.
Life will have
certain successes. That's why
all
Buddhists in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
must abandon these unwholesome mental states:
gossiping, idleness,
idleness – those qualities the Buddha called inferior. Remember, the Buddha called those qualities inferior, evil, and must be
abandoned. The Buddha taught that we must
elevate our minds
and abandon those
inferior qualities. Remember that. Anything that
belongs to a noble character,
we should learn, correct, and cultivate to
possess it.  Noble virtues and base,
we must abandon them. Therefore,
every Buddhist practitioner must find within
their heart what is noble and cultivate it,
making
it abundant. As for narrow, petty, base, and
common virtues, we must remove them from
our hearts. We must examine
which virtues we possess and
begin to learn to eliminate them,
little by little each day, to get rid of those
bad habits.
So, don't talk about gossiping or
spreading rumors; those things are unacceptable. They don't exist in
a dignified person, they don't exist in a wise person, they don't exist
in someone
considered a
role model. Remember, dear friends,
those things don't exist in
such people; they must be abandoned.
[Music]